#3003 add new concept entry about Javascript mutators (#3343)
Codecademy/docs: content/javascript/concepts/mutators/mutators.md

---
Title: 'Mutators'

> Description: 'Mutators change the value of private variables using the `set` keyword.'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Description: 'Mutators change the value of private variables.'
```

Subjects:
  - 'Web Development'
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'OOP'
  - 'Methods'
  - 'Objects'
  - 'Classes'
CatalogContent:
  - 'introduction-to-javascript'
  - 'paths/front-end-engineer-career-path'
---

> Developers can prevent direct modification of a **member variable** by creating a **private variable** and a **mutator** method (also known as a **setter**). This method determines the behavior when assigning a value to those variables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A **mutator** method (also known as a *setter*) can be used to prevent direct modification of a *member variable* by creating a *private variable* . This method determines the behavior when assigning a value to those variables.
```

In Javascript, private member variables are prefixed using the `#` symbol, while mutators are created with the `set` keyword.

```js
class Animal {
  #name;

  set name(name) {
    this.#name = name;
  }
}

const someAnimal = new Animal();
```

The value of the private variable can now be updated by assigning a new value.

> > **Note:** the value of the private variable can not be retrieved without an [accessor](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/javascript/accessors) (also known as a **getter**).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note:** The value of the private variable can not be retrieved without an [accessor](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/javascript/accessors) (also known as a *getter*).
```
